We once again had the opportunity to catch up
with Nick Begich for an update on some of
the technologies on the horizon.
In this interview Nick speaks further about
the VeriChip and what that mean to our lives.
He also shares information regarding quantum computing,
a reality that, he says, is just around the corner.
These two technologies not only will make us easy marks
for influencing our consumer choices,
but also have a much more insidious potential.
I think it's very appropriate to keep up
the conversation about cell phones and really
take it even deeper because it's becoming a big issue.
I think all of us personally know people now,
multiple people, who have died of brain tumors.
Right, in fact this is an ongoing controversy.
It started with, if you remember,
the very first reports of brain tumors
came out of Florida, Congress got involved,
they got very excited, they got Motorola and the industry
to actually fund a study that was over $25 million,
five years, they hired Dr. George Carlo to conduct
that study, and the odd thing was, they didn't put it,
you normally think about scientific studies, you're
hooked up to engineering team or a scientific team,
in this case they were connected to the chief lobbyists
for the industry in Washington DC, because it really
wasn't about science, it was about politics.
What the industry did is, he spent five years,
hired the best people in the world,
put together his report, Motorola and others
came out with that report saying, see, everything is safe,
everything is wonderful, and Dr. Carlo, who is one of
my heroes, had the integrity to stand up and say, no,
that is not what I said, and then he published a book
called Cell Phones: Invisible Hazards.
It actually lays out the framework for not just
tumor formation, but the breakdown of
the blood–brain barrier, he puts together a very good model
that would explain what we're seeing in the research
regarding the wireless world, particularly cell phones.
What we're going to see is something that goes far beyond
what we saw in the tobacco industry, in terms of
potential litigation in the future, particularly
third party litigation, this is where employers,
as a condition of employment, require their employees to use
these phones consistently and constantly during the day.
Eventually that's going to probably breed some of
the biggest worker's compensation cases,
third party litigation because of the health effects
that are being widely reported today.
This begs the question, there are technologies
out there and you have basically put your stamp of approval
on a couple of them, that start knocking out some of
those frequencies, and certainly lessen the impact of
cell phones, why would these companies
not start investing hugely in these technologies?
This is a great question because it's been asked before.
Right after Carlo came out with his report,
at the last count, we found 12 US patents
where the industry had in fact redesigned
circuitry to be safer, although they still
maintain they're perfectly safe.
The thing is, if you acknowledge there's been a safety issue
then you open the door immediately to
the liability of everything that's happened before.
This is something that we, as a public,
should get involved in because we need to provide
a framework where industry, when the research comes out,
that they can come forward and acknowledge it.
As long as they're acknowledging the research
we should limit their liability because they didn't do it,
unless it's in bad faith like what we saw with
the tobacco industry, where the science started to
emerge and they suppressed that science.
In that case, I say bankrupt the industry,
if they hide that science, but if they're open,
and they're honest, and they make those corrective moves
there's lots that we can do but it requires a
different kind of regulatory environment
that encourages industry to be honest, to be upfront
and to take advantage of the kinds of principles applied
in Europe, the precautionary principles, where when
the information first starts to arise we alert
the public, we take the appropriate actions
and if we're wrong, there's nothing lost in that.
But if we're right, there's everything gained by that.
In the 30 years, plus, that the Europeans have applied
this principle, in health and environmental issues,
they have never once been wrong.
Let's talk a little bit about
the Scandinavians cell study, just to give
a little more depth to the physical aspect.
This is interesting, Nokia was ,really, the leader in
the first, and they're a Finnish company,
everybody thinks they're a Japanese firm
because of way they sound, but it's a Finnish company,
so the Scandinavians had the longest historical use
and you want to look at a population that has
a reasonable number in the population across
those two economic boundaries, rural, urban,
and for enough time, so there they had at least
five, six years of pretty intense cell phone use
when this study was done, and when this study was done
it involved 15,000 people, which statistically is
a very fine model, in fact a very good model,
and in that they found that people that used
the phones for over an hour a day,which is pretty routine
these days, had a number of symptoms and the things
they reported were widely reported was
heating behind the ears, first,
short-term memory loss, appetite changes,
sleep pattern disruptions, sex drive disruptions,
and those were the widest reported consequences.
What they found in these studies it tended to be cumulative,
the more you used it the more susceptible to this
that you become, the more weakened your systems becomes.
There's been other studies more recently,
in fact there's a study ongoing right now,
and it's scheduled to end in 25 years,
which will be a little late, because by then
this technology will have been replaced
by who knows what in 25 years.
That's almost like going back to the telegraph,
it just doesn't work, but this is how they
design these in the US and when you look at
the things that are coming out more recently,
last month we had the German Environmental Health Ministry
came out and was giving warnings on wifi,
saying that they are not going into public schools
because of the risks associated with them,
they have given the warning to the public
that these things have potential risks,
again under the precautionary principle,
which has never been wrong, but Germans are not
some slouch country, they are very--
They're not sloppy in research.
Very sophisticated, very thorough and precise
in their research, when the Germans say
there's a problem, we better all be paying attention.
The Swiss actually acknowledged this problem.
Swiss Reinsurance, one of the biggest insurance groups
in the world in terms of making recommendations to
the insurance industry so they avoid troubled waters,
and they wrote a publication, it's available on
the internet, it's called electrosmog.
Electrosmog, as a concept when dealing with cell phones,
what they said is, don't underwrite the risks
of radiation or electromagnetic field effects,
don't underwrite those risks because they believe
it would bankrupt the insurance industry globally.
In plain English, for anybody listening,
that means they find them simply too dangerous
to underwrite because it's going to be absolute that
they're going to have one lawsuit after another.
They're convinced of it, and even Lloyds of London,
which will insure anything, won't insure cell phone
radiation risk, and that should tell us something.
If they won't take the financial risk
why should we take the health risk?
We need to look at the ways to utilize cell phones
in a more sensible way because they're not going away,
but the wireless component is something that is
going to become increasingly intrusive.
I think about my home environment
and within my home environment I have
six wireless networks and none of them are mine
but they all intrude upon my property
and upon my airspace and upon my home.
Do I have a right to sue my neighbors
for inflicting that on me?
When the science is in, I will
because it's an intrusion on my personal space and my life.
When you think about cell phone towers,
and there's been research on this in Europe,
within 1,500 meters of cell phone towers,
they noted distinct changes in the genetic character
of evolving embryos, now this was done animal species
but genetics are genetics, what we're talking about here
is manipulating genetic material in a way
that causes deformation, now when you start to think about
cell phones and cell phone use, it's not just
the instrument you put on your head,
it's the entire system of broadcasting
that we need to be concerned of, and then that
extends into the wireless world
and it also extends into the home portable phones
which people generally don't even think about
when they think about cell phone safety but
the portable phones tend to be even more poorly designed,
more poorly engineered, so they end up using energy
much more inefficiently, which means that energy
is transitting somewhere and a lot of it
is transitted directly into your head.
The other thing that's important is with children.
With in adult, when you put it up to your head,
you have a skull thickness and you have tissue that
offer some resistance to the signal transfer,
for the five year old, 400% more energy transfers into
the brain because of skull thickness, than an adult.
With a ten year old, 200% more energy transits into
the brain, than an adult, so when you think about
cell phones being marketed to children,
it is not done in Europe, in most of the European countries,
they don't put Mickey Mouse characters on cell phones.
In fact, in Great Britain every year in August,
they warn families if your kids are under 16,
try and avoid cell phones before they go back to school.
These things aren't going away but at the same time
there's gaining recognition that there is a problem.
Hopefully the regulatory bodies
at some point, will begin to address it.
To what degrees
are those in the industry preemptively beginning
to modernize the technologies where it is less dangerous?
There are several things that have happened.
It's a question of how much intensity,
just being here, in this space, we're being bombarded
by electromagnetic fields that are effecting us,
less so than placing something next to the head.
When you place it next to the head
because of the way energy transfers,
it spreads out, the density of that energy spreads out
very rapidly with distance, so if you could just get it
a little ways away, you dramatically--
Put it on speaker phone.
Exactly, and so many now have the speaker phone feature.
We already hear half of the conversation,
what do you care if we hear the other half,
in fact it makes it more interesting for the rest of us.
(laughter)
So you hold the phone a little
bit further away, it makes a huge difference.
Don't put it next to your body where there's soft tissue,
and you get deeper penetration and you effect kidneys,
liver and so on, get the phone away from you.
If you're carrying a purse, put it in the purse.
If you're a male, try and figure out a way to not
get it next to you.
Carry a man-bag.
Carry a man-bag, there you go.
(laughter)
We're looking at some of the problems
and you were talking earlier about just
the heating behind the ear, that sounds rather
innocuous in and of itself, but it's not.
It's the heating that is actually at issue, isn't it?
The heating, what it does, is it breaks down
the blood-brain barrier because that heating
also transfers into the brain, in fact,
when you're using a cell phone, and I've seen
the images, where they actually show the heating.
What happens is that heating moves through the skull
into the brain, breaks down the blood-brain barrier,
also slows the repair of DNA, and this normal, natural
repair process is slowed down,
this is the mechanism that Carlo, theoretically believes,
that this is the mechanism that is the trigger
for tumor formation, which actually does make good sense.
It also makes sense of why it would confuse
things like appetite, sleep rhythms, and so on,
because you're transferring toxins, then, into the brain,
short-term memory gets explained, a lot of this
starts to make a lot more sense.
The other interesting thing is
when your friends start dying of tumors
look at which side they held their phone on
because we traditionally hold the phone
on one side or the other and that's where they show up.
You're going to see the busiest people in the world,
the Johnnie Cochrans of the world
who are busy and on that phone six, eight hours a day
and those are going to be the first fallen
in this thing, it's going to be the people that
we probably really need for their intellectual capacity
because they tend to be the busiest people in the world,
tend to use them the most and we really need to think about
how we use our technology and how to better utilize it so we
can avoid some of the downfalls of these two-edged swords.
Looking at cell phone technology
in terms of some of the more nefarious uses of it,
yesterday I heard you talking about the roving wiretap.
Roving wiretaps,
there was a test case that actually went to
the US Supreme Court and it was a case in New York
where they had taped conversations of mafioso,
and using and prosecuting them, and they wanted
that evidence thrown out because the way
the roving wiretap worked is, for instance,
if you wanted to tap a conversation
in a restaurant, you could literally go in,
from a distance activate all of the cell phones
within that restaurant by downloading just a bit
of software to them remotely, activate them
and they act as a microphone in the room
Even if they're turned off?
Even if they're turned off, and they can pick up
all of the conversations within a given space
so even if theses guys are smart enough
to remove the battery, it's the guy next to him at
the table one over, you know, that's got
the phone laying on the table or sitting in their jacket,
but the idea is, with a roving wiretap,
when they first came out people thought,
well what does that mean, they just go through
a neighborhood and randomly check phone lines?
It was kind of confusing and then this lawsuit came out
and they won, the mafia didn't get the evidence thrown out,
they went to jail because the evidence stayed in.
No warrant for any of this,
or was there in this case?
They had a warrant
for the wiretap in this case but
it was just an unusual
For this case.
mechanism for utilizing
because we don't always think of a bug
and you can go in and do a bug sweep.
But when you're doing a bug sweep
and you're looking at the frequency bands
and you see a cell phone bandwidth
assigned by the Department of Commerce,
you look at that and you go, well those are just
cell phones so you ignore it
but the microphone is still there.
You think about it on OnStar on your car,
as another example of this, and the voice you call,
you call them up, well how do you know
they didn't turn it on?
Who do you know is activating that system,
do you really want every move you make tracked?
I personally find that offensive.
The whole idea of the convenience in trading for your
safety and security, and this is always the content
of the argument, well don't you want to be safe,
don't you want to be secure, and they use fear
to motivate you to accept a lowering and lowering
of your standards of what is acceptable
in a civil society, and these are just
small examples of it, but I think a lot of it
has to do with the general convenience of
the device, people will let that other stuff go
because all of us knows it's built in now.
Most people just don't think about it.
Not only that, but there's a conversion over
from landlines that, as you were also stating yesterday,
some 20% of the people don't bother with landlines anymore
so some conversion had to be made if you're going
to continue to be intrusive.
Right, landlines are interesting because
the dropping of landlines generally
and going to cell phone offers a lot of things
from a marketing and from a political perspective
because now you have a unique identifier
that's connected to a unique individual.
RadioShack, in our community, won't charge up phones
unless you do it on a credit card,
they won't take case and they won't take checks
because they also want to know who charged
that phone up, who's paying for the phone use.
Which is an interesting thing because, again,
why isn't US currency good at a RadioShack
for cell phone minutes?
Talk about more insidious data mining.
Exactly, so you start to look at it,
and you say, okay, 20% of the population eventually,
as children grow up, they're not going to get landlines.
They're going to look at it like,
like my son when I tried to explain what a typewriter was
and I said, well, it's a computer keyboard without a screen
and his response was, that'll never work.
(laughter)
Landlines are going the same way,
as this relationship to cell phones and when you think about
the cell phone, it identifies you when you travel around
because it has built-in features.
Every time you make a call, where you were
is also recorded, not just, you made the call,
and who you called and what time it was,
but where you physically were is stored
because it's triangulated between the cell phone towers.
So you're movements are traced as well
and when you start to think about this,
one of the things that's forecasted
because the cell phone is unique enough to use
so that as data mining occurs where lots of information
is collated about individuals, and then you walk by
the electronic billboard down the street
and you're carrying your cell phone and the billboard
recognizes you personally because of that cell phone
and then based upon your entire profile,
starts pitching the advertising messages
that you're most likely to respond to.
How far away is that?
We're very close, I say within the next
three to five years you're going to begin to see
some of this technology commercially applied--
You're going to be more stimulated
as you walk through life because you're going to be
pitched with exactly what your desires want, right?
Right, exactly right, the other part of this is
from a political perspective when you think about
tailored messages based on data mining
what is really important about this is
you could have a political candidate that has
10 major issues, and nine of them you are 100% against,
and one of them you are 100% for,
he's going to isolate which of those issues you're
in favor of and those are the only messages
you're ever going to get from that candidate directly,
either by mail or by the push polls, or whatever mechanism
so that they can manipulate you into believing that
this person resonates with your same belief system
when 90% of their agenda is something
you would fight vigorously against.
That's the manipulation that occurs with
data mining whether it's for political purposes,
the same thing can be used commercially
when you isolate where a person's general pattern
of existence is and you can narrow it down,
when you start to look at larger and larger populations,
you can draw some very important analysis
from that, from a marketing perspective.
That's why Google is becoming so important
because they're collecting all of that data
which is allowing for a honing of marketing.
The idea of all of the interconnections
and how a person views the world can
be deduced from these kinds of oh-ven-gence.
All that data is stored because it's the data
that's valuable, even though we may not have
the capacity today to sort all that data,
that is coming and it's coming extremely rapidly.
Storing it is relatively easy and because it is so cheap
to store vast amounts of data,virtually all data is stored.
But processing it is becoming, also,
another game that's increasing very rapidly.
Oh yes, this is very important because it's
the quantum computing area and we've
talked about that in the past but quantum computing,
and I'll use this analogy because it's a good one,
and it was one that was in an article discussing
the super computer that just had broke the record
in 2006 for speeds and it was 280 teraflops per second
which doesn't mean anything to most people (laughs) in
the world but what is, is the equivalent of
6.6 billion people, with a hand calculator,
each of them every five seconds doing a calculation
for 60 hours and all those 6.6 billion calculators,
every five seconds for 60 hours equal what a
super computer today does in one second.
That's an amazing thing, when you think about it,
but a neuron firing chain in the human brain
requires a three dimensional MRI that requires
three super computers tied together,
just to get one neuron firing in the brain.
Now, wrapping your head around that for a minute,
and then think about that super computer of today
running for an hour, now that's a phenomenal thing,
excuse me, let me change this, that super computer
running for a trillion years,
I just told you what it does in a second,
a trillion years of operating, a quantum computer
in one hour will do what a trillion years
of today's super computer will do.
Quantum computing is the idea on atomic level,
on a very small level, manipulating information
and on that level, the operator influences the outcome,
you know this idea in physics, the observer influences
whether it's a particle or a wave, well this is a problem
in quantum computing that was resolved earlier this year
because they figured out how to electromagentically
shield a quantum computer so you could develop
this technology, so from this point forward
we're going to see accelerated advances.
The other thing that we've seen in speeds
are things like optical microcircuits that work on
light rather than electrons, which is a
much, much faster medium.
When you start to think about light circuits,
that's another major area that will probably be
a step in between the quantum computing set.
But these things are coming,
super conductivity feeds into this, as well,
because when you reduce the resistance down to zero
then you have these incredible speeds
of transmitting information and computing that information
It's, sort of, this coalescing of technologies
taking place right now, quantum computing is going to
be here in the next couple of years
and the day it arrives, whoever gets there first,
every security system in the world
is then vulnerable to hacking.
With enough persistence you hack through them all,
well imagine that super computer
of tomorrow, that quantum computer
being able to hack through, the interesting thing is,
every human brain is a quantum computer.
We already have that capacity, we just
haven't figure out how to fully access it.
It's kind of like man always trying to replicate
what The Creator has already done,
and we always do it with a big hammer
and we only need a feather and we don't
quite figure that out but nonetheless
the human brain is capable of doing much more
than we think and that's where I believe
the real action will come because as these
other technologies emerge, on one side materially,
the human consciousness also changes materially.
It's interesting because the quantum computer
you're talking about, and it's capabilities are,
they were written about by Michio Kaku in his book Visions,
about 10 years ago, but it seems to me we
are way ahead of schedule because I think he had
projected that out for something, like, 2050 when
this would become a useful reality.
That's not unusual to see those predictions
far into the future, there was one on SPACECAST 2020
making predictions about being able
to send voice information into someone's head,
and actually that was done at MIT,
Lemelson Prize was awarded to Woody Norris,
who did that in 2005, 15 years ahead of schedule.
These schedules are really irrelevant
because what happens as computing power increases,
back in the 1980's, we were doubling our knowledge
base from the invention of the wheel
to where we are today about every five years.
Back around the very beginning of this century,
around 2000, it was about every nine to 10 months,
now it's about every seven to six months
and getting shorter and shorter and shorter.
With quantum computing it will be almost every day
we will double the knowledge of human beings
with quantum computing, at that rate there's no way
to analyze the implications of any of those changes
we will just be in this rush, and the thing about
quantum computing, the machines will be incredible,
they'll almost be miraculous because of
their predictive capacity to predict future events
based upon huge bodies of input
and we'll begin to rely on them significantly
in making decisions, and the problem with
quantum computing is it will never absolutely be perfect.
So you get a butterfly effect in the programming
that over time they become less and less reliable.
When we have this capacity,
already, innately.
Already.
Absolutely, and this is where the parallel is,
in my view, is as we learn more about the brain,
as we learn more about the mind
and we begin to open up our own potentials,
we're going to look back on this period
100 years from now and be laughing
about what we were doing, in the same way
that we look back 100 years ago at
the thoughts and science of then.
It's not going to be any different.
I think the biggest concern is,
from my perspective, is you look at the mind
and you look at the brain and what's emerging
in that whole area of neuroscience,
the biggest challenges for civil liberties are at stake
because the domain of the mind
is the connection to whatever you believe
the soul to be connected to, whatever you believe,
it's our control station for this,
and our link to what else is out there
and the fact that anyone believes that they should
be able to manipulate activity within
our brains, for any other purpose,
PBS just did a piece called The 22nd Century
and their opening segment was the World Wide Mind
where they believe that like we had the internet of
the 1990s, that we will have a network where every
human brain on the planet will be connected.
I don't like that because, first of all,
artificially doing this means that
the manipulation of all those human brains
is also possible and being able to project propaganda into
those brains is also possible in lots of different ways.
PBS's suggesting that this is where it's headed.
My view is, we already have this capacity,
we are already connected in this way
we just don't recognize that connection.
The science is beginning to show this.
What we don't need is an artificial system
that there is an operator on that has
the determinative ability to influence
human mind, human behavior, when you think about
reliance on electronics, everyone,
the generation coming up now are so different
from you and I in terms of how they view the world,
it's the gadgetry but when you look
across the world and you look at who is
the most powerful on the planet,
it's those with the highest capacity
to control and command technologies.
Within democratic republics like ours
it means that we all have to have at least
a working conceptual knowledge.
We don't all have to know how to put
the stuff together but we ought to know
what it does, we ought to consider
the ethical and moral implications of it
and have an opportunity to debate that
within the public forum and make sure that technologies
serve humankind's interest, rather than work against us.
Perfectly put.
This is, I wouldn't say it's off topic,
but we might need to find a segue here.
Naomi Watts wrote an article recently, I think it was called
The Tears of Americans, or something,
as she's out speaking she's noticing that
people are coming up to her and saying,
my god what can we do, I'd love to be able to speak up,
I'd love to defend what I think is right
but I'm so afraid They're watching me.
We know it's not plausible to watch every human being
but on the other hand the people who are aware of
all of this are becoming deeply emotionally
depressed over the loss of their autonomy
and being able to speak out.
Any thoughts on this because this is,
valid or not, it's mass.
When people have this,
and I see it too, in a lot of my travels,
the injection of fear into populations
is one of the roots to control the populations,
it always has been because what happens if you look at
the brain, in an EEG, where you're actually measuring
brain activity and you look at people experiencing fear
you get incoherent brain patterns, they're all over the map
and they tend to be in the higher beta ranges and above.
They're the kind of signals that don't allow
for intellectual, higher order thinking.
What you need is to slow the brain down,
to relax, and often what happens with activists,
and see this all the time, they see the issue,
they see the goal, but instead of recognizing
their immediate spheres of influence,
which is where we should start,
they stretch beyond it, and when they do
they're in an unstable position
because they're not able to carry the message forward.
We all have a part to play, we all have
a different part to play, work within your spheres
of influence, do what you absolutely know
that you can accomplish, do that.
Don't do what you don't believe in,
don't do what you don't believe you can achieve,
because it will only create fear and anxiety.
Do what you can do, and it may be as simple
as talking to your neighbor, once you've done that
the next thing will reveal itself and your level
of confidence, and your knowledge of following
your own truth will allow you to propel yourself forward.
Yeah, you'll have times, I myself do,
I've been doing this a long time,
where you get overwhelmed, and it's usually
the other things in life for me,
it's not the work that we're doing, it's just
five kids, big family, lot of stuff going on.
(laughs) Like finances, all of it.
All the stuff that happens in life
but the thing that we need to remember is
it is in the calmness of the center of our soul
that the good things happen, we can't do it
in an agitated state, our government wants
to blow red-alerts, and orange-alerts,
forget all of that, recognize that we have one alert,
and it's green, it means go forward
in what you know to be right and true
and follow that, and at the end of the day
the fear will dissipate.
In terms of counter-technology, as it were,
that can kind of block and shield, and so forth,
is there any technology you know of outside of
what we're beginning to rediscover
in really ancient technologies,
that can, in essence, do a smog bust
on these frequencies in your domain?
It's difficult because the carriers are so different.
You would have to develop systems to block
each and every potential, the other way,
you look at that side, how do you counter all of
the signals coming in and the other way to look at it is,
can I create a signal within my near field
that will be strong enough that my body will lock onto it
and ignore the rest, and that's the better approach.
That's better, so how do you--
There are some things out there,
there are some electromagnetic field generators,
and I can't give you a brand name or anything,
but they're out there, that'll create
an electromagnetic pulse in, say, the 7.83 hertz range
which is the Schumann's resonance, these things exist
they create an electromagnetic field pulse
that the body will couple with, you will lock onto,
but it's a pulse rate that correlates to
the higher states of consciousness,
correlates to the planet itself
and is a healthful thing, so what happens is,
you lock onto that, you're zeroed in on that,
and all of these other signals coming in tend to be weak
and so you ignore them like background noise
in a crowded room and that's exactly how it works.
Strong systems are the better systems.
When you think about depressed systems,
I'm talking about human beings around the country,
the level of depression related to stress,
which drives the system down, which weakens
the immune system, which weakens your own
signal strength in terms of how you
act as a transceiver and transducer of energy,
all of that changes when your system is crushed by stress.
Stress is really the root of a lot of this,
fear drives stress, a lot of other things do as well,
so looking for techniques, simple breathing
can reduce stress, we've demonstrated a lot of things in
the past, certain methods of biofeedback can be used,
but just some basic meditation techniques,
and we're not talking about in a religious connotation,
I'm just talking about basic techniques for slowing
the brain activity down, getting your body back in sync
and providing your body with the right nutrients,
which is something else we don't do
in this country sufficiently, you need
the right building blocks within the body
to build a strong system, and then you need to
look at stress as one of the things
that break that system down, and try and find ways
to mitigate against the stresses of life.
A lot of that happens by taking your own control
of your own power again, when you know
you need to do something and you don't do it,
your stress level actually increases.
If you take a step in the direction
of what you know to be right and true
you regain your own control, your own empowerment
and you recognize that you're created,
if you believe this, and I do,
you're created in the image of a Creator,
it's not how we look, it's what our capacity is.
Don't insult the creation itself by limiting
your own possibilities.
For more background on these technologies
you may want to check out our first two interviews
with Nick as well, you can also pick up a copy of his books
by clicking on the link below.
It's important that we stay on top of
these particular issues before our freedom simply slip away.
Until next time, thanks for watching CMN.
(soothing music)